Agile team challenges

We'll go through some of the challenges you might encounter during a change process that are specific to Agile teams. As
a project manager or scrum master, it's your responsibility to help teams improve how they work and coach them on how to
effectively adopt scrum practices. So anticipating and understanding how to work through common challenges before they
happen is super important. Remember the four themes of Agile principles that we discussed? To refresh your memory, the 
themes are: 

    Value Delivery, Business Collaboration, Team Dynamics, and Culture and retrospectives

We'll focus on challenges you migh encounter with an Agile team that are related to the first three themes.

Value Delivery challenges

    - making sure the team is delivering working solutions frequently.

    Signs that your team is experiencing value delivery issue could include things like:
        * the team has started missing expected delivery dates and is taking a lot longer than usual to complete tasks.
        * or you might notice that the team seems burned out, is working long hours, and showing signs of exhaustion.
        * or maybe the team has too many items in progress at any given time, preventing tasks from actually getting 
            done.
    if you start to notice your team is struggling in these areas, there are a few thing you can do to help. You can try
    doing more demos of the solutions with the team to ensure they're deliverying on the value roadmap. When the team 
    pauses to tae in a big picture view of the workiung product, they are often notice areas where they can improve and 
    speed up the work. 

        You can also use retrospectives to ask the team of anything is slowing them down, like wating on dependencies or
    communication challenges. It can also help to do a quick review with teh team and make sure that everyone understand
    what "done" means. 
    
        And finally, be sure to focus on only a few user stories per sprint. This ensures the tam finishes an item 
    together before moving on. Putting all this into practice can be harder that you might think. My current team is 
    asked to cover a lot of ground work in each sprint, so it can be tempting for us to try and tackle too much at once.
    But doing that usually just makes everying take longer, so it's not actually helpfull. It's better to maintain focus
    and deliver fewer backlogs items in one sprint than to deliver a lot of items in more sprints.

Business Collaboration challenges

    Business Collaboration
        - about making sure that developer are collaborating with business people on how to build the right product. 
    
    Few issues that you might be dealing with business collaboration issues:
        * You might notice that the team is overwhelemed with critical feedback or change requests from business people
        after they reviewed the working solution. That could lead people on your team avoiding asking for feedback or
        complaining about requested changes comping from the PRoduct Owner or business team.
        * you might start to detech an "us vs them" mentality between team doing the work and management. I've sometimes
        notice this manifest in negative comments from team members like "Don't give a demo to the salesperson. It's not
        ready yet, and they'll just point out what's wrong."

    If you notice these signs, there are a few things you can do to help rebuild trust and collaboration between the 
    developers and the business people. 

        * Try addressing critical feedback and change requests by doing more demos. This ensures feedback comes at a 
        steady pace and that everyone involved has a shared understand of what done means.
        
        * Consider a solution design sprint, which is an entire sprint spent working solely on the solution design. These
        are the most effective when the working team and the business people actually sit together and collaborate on the 
        solution.

        * you can help your team focus by ensureing changes to the backlog are introduce only in between sprints. This
        prevents your team from getting distracted by possible changes which could stree the mout and lead to resentment.
        For example, i once on a scrum team where teh engineering directore loved to stop by the engineer's desk to ask
        for a quick dashboard, which is a web page that shows, data, Asking the engineer to do this completely disrupted
        the teams focus and slowed down the team's velocity. We finally decided to ask the director to come straight to 
        the scrum master when they needed something so that it could be planned proplely and not interrupt the team's 
        current workflow.

Team dynamic challenges

        Human beings are complex creatures with lots of different motivations and styles of working, so it's likely that 
    you'll encounter at least few challenges at this area.

    Common signs of team dynamics and culture issues:

        * low team morale

            If people are super grumpy, irritated, or generally in a bad mood, then you might have some underlying team 
        dynamics issues to sort out. 

        * watch out for sings the team is experiencing lots of conflict.

            if people are arguing a lot and issues aren't getting resolved, the team probably needs some help. Not 
        everyon is going to get their way. If team members feel resentful or hold on to grudges, it'll negatively impact
        the team's performance. 
    
        * low conflict can also be a sign that the team is experiencing issues.

            we're usually taught to believe that no confilect is a good thing, right? But if a team never has disagreements,
        it is a sign that they mifht be worried about starting a conflict because the dont feel like it's a safe environment.
        Being open and corageous are tow of our Scruym values, but its not always easy to put them into practice. 

    As  project manager, part of your role is help your team get comfortable being honest with each other and working 
    through conflicts together. If you notice any of these or any other clear sighs of team distress, here are some ideas
    you can try:

        * You could run a team brainstorm session about how to work better together. Ask the team to identify some areas
        to improve on. an example exercise could involve asking the team to write down stories about the worst team they
        have ever worked on, then sharing them in a meeting. The you might have the team create a list of do's and don'ts
        for working togehter, based on the stories theyve shared.

        * change up the workflows. Try pairing up the people to work together on a hard task or change up the way you run
        one of your regular meetings. It can also helop to take a training class together or watch a video about team
        dynamics and discuss it as a group.

        * try a retrospective techniques form the internet. There are tones of great resouces out there. One of my 
        favorite retrospective techniques is called the Six Hats Thinking Technique. In this technique, each team members
        chooses a different hat to explore the subject of the retrospective. The different hats each involve a different
        objective, like discussing possitives or negattives that happened during the sprint or sharing emotive statements.
        This helps to ensure that the team taks a well-rounded approach to the retrospective. 
