Coaching an Agile Team

As the project mqnager or Scrum team, you're in the position to help the team improve. in other words, you're the 
designated Agile Coach.

Roles as a Coach:

* design the "plays" with the Team

        Although the scrum master owns the playbook, it should be create with the whole team. The playbook should 
    include how the whole team runs a Sprint review, how to etam workds day-to-day, and how the team publishes plans to 
    stakeholders. When update are need to the team's plays, it's important that you involve the team in any decisions.
    Take them through new processes together, think trhoughall the positions on the team, and make sure everyone notices
    the flow.

    example:

        when facilitating a brainstorm meeting with team to discuss which parts of our process weren't working. used
    sticky notes to organize the ideas for improvement and then prioritized the ideas ot implement changes.

* provide feedback to the team

        you should always provide feedback to you team and stakeholdser as early as possible and on day-to-day basis.
    Just like a coach gives directions from the sidelines, the scrum master needs to provide guidance all the time. in
    addion to feedback provided in the moment, the scrum mastt also takes n a big picture view. this is similar to how
    a coach might watch a video recap of the game to find patterns that need inprovement or plays that worked so well,
    they should do it every game. Providing feedback shouldn't only be about fixing broken things, but finding processes
    and activities that worked really wel and encourage the tam to continue using the things that work.

* celebrate and learn with the team

        Congratulate the taem often on a job well done, a happy customer, or a big solution launch. If the team "loses",
    meaning they weren't successfull in fulfilling a requirement, acknowledgement that loss as critical data that will 
    help the team improve next time. It's important for the team to still feel positive about any disappointment and 
    think of it as a learning opportunity. As Thomas Edision said, "I have not failed - I've just found 10,000 ways 
    that won't work."

Key takeaways

As a scrum master or agile project manager, you pla and essential role in the team and you're a big part of why scrum 
master and agile work at all. you're responsible for ensuring the team is always improving and becoming the best team it
can possibly be.