Common coaching challenges

* Managing a Stable product roadmap

    Agile projects almost always experience changes in the product roadmap. Being able to respond quickly and productively to these changes is
    a core Agile Value. But it is possible to have too much change impacting the project, which can lead to an unstable product roadmap.

    Two main causes of an unstable product roadmap:
    * Product Ambition

        Product ambition poses a challenge when a product leadership is overly ambitious about what the team can realistically deliver. The
    Product owner is responsible for representing the project to customers and executives. Because the product owner wants to make the 
    stakeholders happy, it can be easy for them to over-promise what the project can deliver. 

    Product Ambition Solutions
    There are three ideas to to maintain a healthy roadmap management plan between you and the product owner:

        1) Agreed upfront how to handle new opportunities
            Define when they are reviewed and estimated, andhow custome or management commitments are made.
        
        2) Setup regular roadmap reviews with the entire team
            - at least, quarterly so that everyone knows what to expect.
        
        3) Promote sharing knowledge between the product owner and the development team so that the product owner knows how much effort the
        product takes to build and the team is aware of changes as early as possible.

    * Product Assumption

        THe second thing that can cause an unstable product roadmap is making too many product assumptions. When there is uncertainty in a 
    project, you may be required to make some assumptions to move things forward but making too m any assumptions can jeopardize the team's
    success.

    Product assumptions Solutions

        1) document the assumptions and make them transparent. 
            - This allows you to discuss the assumptions as a team and either agree that they're safe assumptions to make or decide to question
        and double check them.

        2) if you decide to double check them, you can use unbiased user research.

            Unbiased research
                - gathers information about what users really want. It allows you to confirm or reject assumptions and helps you move forward with 
            confidence. User research could involve conducting surveys, running focus groups, or using orther methods to collect objective data 
            about your users.

* Incomplete implementation of Scrum
        This happens when scrum practices are onbly partially implemented or when Scrum practices are implemented without 
    proper support and coaching. Scrum roles, artifacts and activities are designed to work together as a set. If you 
    only partially implement them, you might end up reducing its benefits. Incomplete implementation of scrum can cause
    a lot of issues. 

        Challenges of incomplete implementation of scrum

        * loss of clear roles and responsibilities
            
            To implement scrum completely, you should define the roles for the team and then fill those roles with 
        specific individuals. For example, if you try to have a developer also act as the scrum master, they might not 
        have the bandwidth to do either role very well. Better to have developers beyond the development team and you, 
        the project manager, be the scrum master. 

        * temptation to skip some events or blend them to save time

            But a lack of clear boundaries for sprint review, sprint retrospective, and sprint planning can lead to 
        reduced transparency, inspection, and adaptation and these are all essential to experience the full benefits of\
        Scrum.

        * not providing the team with the scrum coaching they need would aslo mean that you haven't fulfilled your role
        as a scrum master. it's your job to fully explain the Scrum practicies and provide coaching so your team 
        understands the reasoning behind the practices and can embrace their benefits. 

        Solution to this challenge

        * Implement Scrum Completely

            Being the scrum master is a critical role. You're the coach, so you should reinforce the connections between
        the teams activities and the Scrum and Agile Values. For example, if your team complaints about daily stand-ups,
        remind theme that the purpose of stand-ups is to gain feedback, unblock work, ask for help, and reinforce the 
        importance of staying focused on the sprint goals. 
        
        *You can make sure roles are well defined and properly fulfilled. 

            For example, ensure that all team members understand their own roles as well as the roles of their teammates
        and how those roles interact. For example, the product owner makes sure we build the right thing, the development
        team ensures we build it right, and the Scrum master ensures we build it fast.

* Experiencing a lack of team stability

        When the team changes a lot with people leaving and joining frequently, it can make things unpredictable and 
    disrupt the flow of work.

    team instability Solutions

    * have a quick onboarding process for new team members to help them get to know the rest of the team and understand
    the project. 

    * Use a pair programming style where a new team members teams up with a colleage and starts learning on the job. This
    also help if people lead the team, since a partner should be able to pick up where they left off.

    * If team composition changes because members keep leaving, try having shorter sprints. This way, team members can 
    wrap up their last sprints worth of work before leaving.
