Burndown Charts
    - measures time against the amount of work done and the amount of work 
    remaining.
    - the goal of the burndown chart is to keep the team aware of who they'recognize
    doing against the overall goals.
    - in a scrum team, burndown charts reflect how to team is doing with completing
    user stories during the sprint.
    - the scrum master will review the burndown chart, sometimes daily, to examine 
    if the team will hit their goals or not.
    -In Scrum, a burndown chart reflects the team's progress completing user stories
    and the amount of work completed in the sprint.
    - if your team is using t shirt sizes instead of story points, simply map the sizes 
    to a numver adn use that number for the burndown and velocity calculations. for example,
    an extra small is 1 point, small = 2 pnt, medium = 5 pts, and so on.

velocity
    - points a team burns down in a sprint on average.
    - measure of how many points a team burns down during a single sprint on average.
    - when a team is conducting Sprint Planning, Theyre using average velocity over at 
    least three sprints to determine how many items they can safely add to their sprint
    backlog.
    - when we refer to story points, we are refering to a unit of measurement that expresses
    the estimated effrot required to implement that backlog. These story points are callibrated
    and decided on by the team.
    - few notes on velocity calculations:
        - there is no such thing as good or bad velocity.
            - it is simply what the team has historically been able to achieve in a
            predetermined timebox.
        - each team  will have different velocity, especially since each team decides 
        on their own point system callibration. 
    - once you have a stable velocity and a refined backlog with prioritization and estimates,
    this undlocks an incredibly valuable superpower. You can now tell you stakeholders and 
    sponsors two important things. You can tell tehm approximately how long it will take to
    complete the entire product backlog and how much of your backlog will be completed by 
    a particular time. This ability to confidently predict when things can get down 
    is ne of the most powerful tools in Agile and Scrum.

Interpreting velocity : Do's and Don'ts

Calculating velocity

estimating effort can be done in a variety of units. Most often in Agile Teams, story points or T-shirt sizes are used to estimate effort.
if you use t-shirt sizes, your team will map those sizes to a numeric value for the purpose of calculating a team velocity.

when your team begins running sprints or iterations, they wont be able to accurately determine velocity because they will no historical 
basis on which to calculate an average number of points completed in a sprint. in their very fist sprint, your team will make a rough guess
as to how many items they can complete just to get started. Once a few sprints have been completed, your team will have a good measure of
their velocity and they will use that number to determine which items to include in their Sprint backlog. This should be easy to do if your 
team has a properly prioritized and estimated backlog to work from. as you will recall from the video, this process is called backlog 
refinement.

Using velocity for good

when interpreting velocity it is important to keep a few things in mind. you may feel inclined to share velocity with members outside of your team
or to use velocity as a performance of comparison metric. you may also feel inclined to use it to determine a project delivery date. However, 
some Agile experent warn against these practices. let's discuss why.

DO: BE CAREFUL WHEN SHARING VELOCITY WITH EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS

Velocity can be helpful for individuals outside of the Scrum team, but when sharing it with non-team members, be very careful. Since velocity is
different for every team, a stakeholder may not have enoguh context to interpret it. Be sure to share relevant supporting materials to help add
context. A good example of this is sharing the velocity with a corresponding date range and visualization that indiciates trends over time. there
may be dips and spikes in velocity that draws insights and encourage improvements in future projects.

DO: PROCEED WITH CAUTION WHEN USING VELOCITY AS A METRIC FOR PROJECT DELIVERY DATE

Using a velocity to estiamte the delivery date of a project spanning numerous sprints can be tricky. velocity can be used as a pressure point by 
exernal stakeholder who want to set a date for their product launch. Velocity can also create false expectations and a harshly competitive culture 
when the team doesnt hit estimated dates. Projecting deliverable dates is harmful because it can take a team several sprints to really understand
what they are capable of delivering in each iteration. Also, if you map out too many dates in advance, you arent able to accound for the changes
and issues will arise. Therefore, make sure you are being carefull not to use estimated delivery dates as commitments.

DONT: USE VELOCITY AS A PERFORMANCE METRIC

It is natural for individuals to want to quantify performance through data, but in can be detrimental for a team to feel that kind of pressure
within their sprints. There may be executives, sponsors, or stakeholders that want to use velocity as a performance metric, but this will only
hurt the team by encouraging tactics like indimidation. If the team is worried about their velocity making it seem like they are underperforming,
the team's culture can become harmed as a result.

DONT:  USE VELOCITY AS A COMPARISON METRIC

If you are leading a few different scrum teams, you may be tempted to compare the two team's productivity based on their velocity. You may have the 
impulse to check which teams are completing the most story points per iteration. However, the weight of different story points is subjective because
they are created by the team. One team may consider a story to be five points, but another team might consider it to be closed to three points.

Therefore, judging productivity solely on velocity isn't accurate or fair.  Additionally, velocity is not a measure of value. one team's velocity
might differe from another team's, but this valriability is fine as long as both teams are deliverying value to your stakeholders.

